Sun Nov 30 19:39:05 EST 2014


===== rogomatic


building:

 - should build and compile

 - i have a report of rogomatic not working on a 64 bit 
   system, but details are still unknown.


code changes/fixes summary:

  welcome to the latest version that i've been working on
for the past few months.  many changes here detailed below...
some of these changes are possibly temporary or may need 
further adjustment as i continue testing.  the good news is
that all these changes fixed the following long standing bugs
that i've wanted to tackle (i hope :)):

  1. incorrect inferences
  2. repeated display of certain items
  3. identified items not in the database correctly
  4. golden and silvery in rogue were reverted back
     to gold and silver now that the database keeps 
     track of what type of item.  we can now have a 
     silver potion and a silver wand and rogomatic 
     won't be confused.

  and others...  pretty much the entire database code
was gone through and either revised or made sure it
worked how i expected it.  also, the database itself
was revised to keep track of all interesting items and
not just those items used.  this may have implications
for other bits of code that i've not exercised yet.

  you are not getting untested code.  i've run a
few thousand SEEDs and also stress tested this version
of rogomatic by using a rigged version of rogue (to
put down a lot of items and many cursed or tricky 
things).  only one "Error" is being reported by these
tests (so far :) ) (the below mentioned: Followmap: 
direction invalid error bug).  this does not mean this
program is perfect, far from it, but i'm gradually
tracking down bugs which cause it to stop completely
or to sit and spin until the hero starves or similar
things like searching over and over again and not
finding something that looks obvious to me.  some of
these sorts of bugs take a great deal of time to 
figure out so i may not get them all done at once.
be patient or help out.


  because there have been so many changes...  major version
bump.


    [r2.0.0]  <--  version 2 at last!

  - globals.h, added pending_call_letter and pending_call_name[]
		which made it possible to fix the bug that was happening when
    there were things being identified.  *realname() was replaced
    by *findentry_getrealname() and *findentry_getfakename() was
    added.

  - types.h, removed constant INVMAX (not used anywhere).

  - command.c, fixed bug in displaying long commands (they
    would wrap to the next line).

  - database.c, added more info to the database array (type of
    object, pack_index (thought i would use it, but ends up i
    didn't but when dumping the table it's nice to have so 
    left it in)), renamed things a bit.  now rogomatic will not
    confuse gold/silver potions with gold/silver wands and it
    will also not make incorrect inferences based upon a wrong
    entry in the database.  so this fixes two outstanding bugs
    that i've wanted to get done for a few years now.  :)

    notes:  (about why some things may not appear to be working
             right away...(but they are))

      when dumping the dbase table it isn't a bug if the 
    pack_index is missing or incorrect because they are not 
    used for anything important.  only when the item is first 
    added to the dbase is that index correct.  afterwards, as 
    items get picked up, dropped, used, etc. it isn't worth it
    to update the pack_index (because it wasn't being used for 
    anything other than cosmetic when dumping the table).

      because of how rogomatic handles items quaffed, zapped,
    read, etc. (anything that ends up calling the function infer())
    after they've been used (and the "Call it" comes back, but
    gets cancelled) it may be the case that the dbase will know 
    the name of the item, but rogue has been told to use the code
    name (when the "Call it" gets cancelled).  so the next time
    the item shows up in the game it will be known, but it will
    show up with the code name, the next inventory reset will create
    a deferred pending "Call it" to let rogue know we know the real 
    name of the item.

      i tried various approaches to this problem (and the related
    problem of how to fix the identifying scroll reading bugs that 
    were happening) for a few weeks, but ended up concluding that 
    the least intrusive fix was to set it up so that it eventually
    gets triggered at the top strategy level.  at least then it
    does not interfere with other pending tasks.

      also (yes, i know this is a lot of writing :) ), the dbase
    now keeps track of every item of interest (scroll, potion,
    ring, wand, staff), whereas before it only kept track of
    items that were used.  which means a flag for being used
    was added to the dbase itself and various functions adjusted
    to work with that.  the dump of the dbase was also revised.

  - main.c, new variables noted above for globals.h, while i was
    making changes, i replaced the 64s with NAMSIZ so if i need
    to adjust them again i can do it with one change instead of
    having to play "hunt the string with this length" game again.

  - mess.c, many many changes, mostly to infer() related things
    because now that the dbase keeps track of what type of item
    it is that information has to be passed through.  readident(),
    infer() were revised.  some messages were also added or
    altered to pick up the changes i made to rogue.

  - pack.c, add all interesting items to the dbase.  later on
    when an inventory reset happens we'll scan through the whole
    pack again, so that is when we can pick up on items that
    rogue still is using the code name for and we know the 
    real name.  when that happens a deferred pending "Call it"
    will be created and eventually strategize() will notice
    that has happened and run it.

  - rooms.c, lightroom() didn't know when a wand/staff became
    WORTHLESS and would keep zapping...

  - strategy.c, added function callitpending() to deal with items
    that need to be renamed by rogue.  also many fixes to words
    like "dont" a few typoes, etc.

  - tactics.c, trywand() and readscroll() revised, other "dont"s
    fixed.

  - things.c, added function destroyjunk() (a version of dropjunk
    from strategy.c), drop() was revised, but i think needs a lot
    more reconsideration.  point() added a check for USELESS, 
    unknown() removed the unused condition, haveuseless() revised
    and may need rethinking too, we'll see how further testing goes...

  - worth.c, useless() added a check for WORTHLESS.


    [r1.0.9]
  - command.c added more checks on wielding, so that if the
    hero wanted to do a test wield (a 'w' immediately followed
    by an ESC) that would not crash the player.

  - also related to wielding, changes were made to mess.c, 
    strategy.c and things.c hoping to finally fix this for
    good.

  - additional cosmetic changes to pack.c to shorten up the
    description for dwait when D_PACK debugging is turned on.

  - fixed up a few comments that were wrong (screen size should
    be at least 31x80 when D_PACK is set) in mess.c and changed
    a few messages to be consistent with the rest (they weren't
    capitalized for some reason).

  - bumped repeat limits up further in command.c.

  - added global variable diddrop to keep the hero from
    dropping something on top of something else.

  - added MAXSAMECOM so that changing the repeat count is 
    quicker.


    [r1.0.8]
  - command.c bumped up limits so that errors that were
    previously considered fatal have enough time to finish.


    [r1.0.7]
  - changed configure.ac to fix configure error about
    missing "missing" script.

  - rooms.c currentrectangle was setting negative values
    added checks to make sure that doesn't happen again.

  - things.c wield weapon handling doesn't work quite right,
    fixed bug in sendcnow, but then just commented the call
    out for now as it wasn't doing what i expected.  will 
    continue researching this for the next release.


    [r1.0.6]
  - io.c scrolling caused problems, one bug fixed, but another
    still remains to be solved.

  - rooms.c fixed a debugging use of (v,h) to now use directional
    letters (u,d,l,r) instead, makes things a little clearer.

  - explore.c fixed small bug in debugging info display during
    monster avoiding.

  - command.c bumped up limits for error reporting.

  - got rid of deciphervt100.c and adjusted src/Makefile.am.


    [r1.0.5]
  - fixed my mistake in last change.  it would not have 
    worked well.
 

    [r1.0.4]
  - working on fixing the "1y" direction infinite loop bug
    (repeatedly tries to walk into a wall).  the quick
    fix is in this version.  this way at least there won't 
    be an infinite loop, instead rogomatic will give a 
    fatal error message and then quit.  the actual figuring 
    out of why and correcting it will take a different 
    release (i'm looking into it now as i get time).


    [r1.0.3]
  - reformatted code.  enough reading of strange indents
    already...  no other changes than reformatting.


    [r1.0.2]
  - wielding weapons can fail mid-weild causing troubles.
    fixed so that there is more and better checking of
    weapon traits -- this seems to eliminate several other
    bugs/error messages that were happening.


strange happenings and known bugs:

 - Followmap: direction invalid error
 - doesn't find some passageways when searching
 - will starve to death standing on a
   scare monster scroll


wishlist items and help me out things:

 - do the same sort of thing for armor
   handling that i did for weapon handling
 - fix configure/automake stuff to work with
   ncurses debugging includes and libraries
   - go through and make sure what is there is
     correct and useful (get rid of old stuff
     which may no longer apply)
 - find a better home for this code than my
   machine.  must be free and useable by
 - get 64 bit issue sorted out
 - some of the code has been commented out
   dealing with signals, i don't think i'll
   look at it anytime soon, but if you can
   sort it out that would be great
 - see next section (ask me if i'm working on
   something before putting time into it as
   i'd rather you work on something i'm not...)


screen not updating correctly:

 - leftover '.', '@' and other characters in dark rooms
 - passages are sometimes blank instead of '#'
 - monster letters don't get removed
 - #'s get put to the left
 - the internal representation of the screen is correct
   so these are what seems to be cosmetic flaws and i
   can probably point you to the code which needs 
   tweaking...


rogue and rog-o-matic versions someday:

 - test against different versions of rogue 
   other than my 5.4.4. altered version.

   - yes, finally did some of this and it looks like
     making changes for the bsdgames-nonfree version of
     rogue is too large.  skip this...

   - the rogue fork versions at coredumpcentral.org seem
     to actually work somewhat, but i don't think any of
     them get very far...  skip this...


bug reports, fixes, questions:

  ant at anthive dot com


===== rogue


No bugs known for rogue5.4.4-ant-r1.1.0


rogue5.4.4-ant-r1.1.0 (this is the version i use 
for testing rogomatic):

  [these are done, see that README]

 - configuration changes
 - fix several messages (grammar)
 - fix spelling of missle to missile
 - change colors so they aren't the same (fixes 
   invalid inference/reference problem in 
   rogomatic), gold -> golden, silver -> silvery
 - change even more messages from potions and
   scrolls to eliminate other invalid inference/
   reference problems in rogomatic
 - fix the bug from when the nymph stole an item,
   it was an invalid reference to a freed space
   that caused rogue to return an octal 310.  the
   nymph now steals all of an item if she hits and
   there is more than one of them
 - make the environment variable SEED useful for 
   testing (repeatable random number sequences)
 - when changing levels make sure to drop down
   on a space that is not occupied
 - fix invalid reference to freed space
 - cleaned up a few memory leftovers reported by
   valgrind memcheck
 - fixed maze/room generation bug that was causing
   an infinite loop
 - reverted change to gold/silver above (no longer
   needed)
 - added some messages for a few items when used


rogue5.4.4-rgm-r1.0.2 (version for the purists):

 - configuration fixes
 - fix for the nymph steals item bug
 - fix reference to freed space

  NOTE: no more changed being made to r1.0.2 by me.

